Time to Interactive is NOT the time until a page is interactive (#782)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2019/mobile-web.md

The state of JavaScript on the mobile web is terrifying. According to HTTP Archive's [JavaScript report](https://httparchive.org/reports/state-of-javascript?start=2016_05_15&end=2019_07_01&view=list#bytesJs), the median mobile site requires phones to download 375 KB of JavaScript. Assuming a 70% compression ratio, this means that phones have to parse, compile, and execute 1.25 MB of JavaScript at the median.

> Why is this a problem? Because sites loading this much JS take upwards of [10 seconds](https://httparchive.org/reports/loading-speed?start=earliest&end=2019_07_01&view=list#ttci) to become consistenly interactive. Or in other words, your page may appear fully loaded, but when a user clicks any of your buttons or menus, the user may experience some junk because the JavaScript hasn't finished executing. Users may be forced to keep clicking the button for upwards of 10 seconds, just waiting for that magical moment where something actually happens. Think about how confusing and frustrating that can be.

Reviewer: Did you mean “junk” or jank? Assuming it’s jank then think we should have a link to a definition for this term?

Reviewer: Never mind. See you updated. Resolving this.

> Why is this a problem? Because sites loading this much JS take upwards of [10 seconds](https://httparchive.org/reports/loading-speed?start=earliest&end=2019_07_01&view=list#ttci) to become consistenly interactive. Or in other words, your page may appear fully loaded, but when a user clicks any of your buttons or menus, the user may experience some slowdown because the JavaScript hasn't finished executing. In the worst case scenario (assuming that the slowdown is due to a single CPU-intensive task that would last up to the 10th second), users may be forced to keep clicking the button for upwards of 10 seconds, just waiting for that magical moment where something actually happens. Think about how confusing and frustrating that can be.

Reviewer 2: Let's work this edit down to the smallest footprint possible while still fixing the technical error. I'd like to keep as much of this in the authors' own words and minimize any extra translation overhead.

Is it sufficient to only change "interactive" to "consistently interactive"?

Reviewer 3: First of all just want to say big thanks for the feedback. Really appreciate it :)

I like changing `interactive` to `consistently interactive`, but while the added parenthesis of information is technically true... I feel it makes the paragraph more confusing and harder to digest.

What about adding a link to more information on this particular metric down below?

Author: There are 4 propositions in this paragraph. Assuming we only add "consistently" to the first one.

> this much JS take upwards of 10 secondes to become **consistently** interactive

Makes sense.

> when a user clicks any of your buttons or menus, nothing happens

You still can't infer that from a high TTI.

> Users are forced to keep clicking

You still can't infer that from a high TTI.

> Think about how confusing and frustrating that can be.

Or maybe it isn't. This is a page with a 21-second TTI and you can scroll and input text.

The TTI is a "Time To Last Long Task". You don't know what happened before, and can't say the page was not interactive.

Author: The only way a user can't interact with a 10-second TTI page is if the page executes one 10-second JS long task (and as the TTI is 10 seconds, this would be the only long task). So we need more nuance here, like "interact satisfactorily" or "interact well", or "user may feel the urge to click"… because otherwise, what's written here is untrue.

Author: And we could also switch from TTI to First CPU Idle ([TTFI](https://httparchive.org/reports/loading-speed?start=earliest&end=2019_07_01&view=list#ttfi)) which is stil discutable – the window of quiescence is large – but more adequate than TTI for this.

Reviewer: > I like changing `interactive` to `consistently interactive`, but while the added parenthesis of information is technically true... I feel it makes the paragraph more confusing and harder to digest.

What about removing the parenthesis bit? I agree it does make the sentence quite wordy and not sure it's needed to be honest – it does say in the worst case in the revised wording! So below suggestion would be a middle ground somewhere between @rviscomi 's minimal edit, and @borisschapira 's full one:

```suggestion
Why is this a problem? Because sites loading this much JS take upwards of [10 seconds](https://httparchive.org/reports/loading-speed?start=earliest&end=2019_07_01&view=list#ttci) to become consistently interactive. Or in other words, your page may appear fully loaded, but when a user clicks any of your buttons or menus, the user may experience some slowdown because the JavaScript hasn't finished executing. In the worst case scenario, users may be forced to keep clicking the button for upwards of 10 seconds, just waiting for that magical moment where something actually happens. Think about how confusing and frustrating that can be.
```

BTW this is not a sleight @borisschapira – overly wordy sentence is something I'm very, very guilty of myself!! 😀

> What about adding a link to more information on this particular metric down below?

We could, but my preference would be not to add more links that the author didn't include originally (even though I loved your piece @borisschapira !) unless really necessary. We're bordering on trying to keep this up to date, when I think that's what future year's editions are for.

Author: > We're bordering on trying to keep this up to date

Actually, I was going to translate this part and I can't, because I can't translate s.t. I think is not true.

But I'm far from being the only person who can translate this to French, so I'll close this PR if you think I'm too demanging (I know I can be).

Reviewer: So you don’t think my compromise suggestion is sufficient to address your concerns? Especially with your “in the worst case” addition?

Reviewer: Reworded my last comment to be less confrontational! Wasn’t intended as such but in re-reading it, I thought better to reword it to make that clear.

Author: Yes, your suggestion is perfect, I wanted only to comment this part.
